docs: contributors enhancements (#1781)
theupdateframework/tuf: docs/CONTRIBUTORS.rst

Instructions for Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Contribute to python-tuf by submitting pull requests against the "develop"
branch of this repository. Detailed instructions are available in our
`development guidelines
<https://github.com/secure-systems-lab/lab-guidelines/blob/master/dev-workflow.md>`_.
All submitted code should follow our `style guidelines
<https://github.com/secure-systems-lab/code-style-guidelines/blob/master/python.md>`_

> and must be unit tested [reference to test section below] .

Reviewer: > [reference to test section below]
Hehe, I actually meant to make "unit tested" a link to the test section below. I didn't know the rst syntax form the top of my head. :D

Author: Oh, I'm sorry! Actually, it was a regression after I tried to migrate it to Markdown.

Development Installation
========================

To work on the TUF project, it's best to perform a development install.

To facilitate development and installation of edited version of the code base,
developers are encouraged to use `venv <https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html>`_.

> 1. First, `install non-Python dependencies <INSTALLATION.rst#non-python-dependencies>`_.

Reviewer 2: link is broken on RTD

Author: Thank you, @jku.
I used ``'sphinx.ext.autosectionlabel'``, not sure if we want to use it like that or add the absolute link.

Reviewer: I lean towards using the absolute link. Like that it will not only render correctly on RTD, but also on GitHub, which [currently it doesn't](https://github.com/theupdateframework/python-tuf/blob/1ae438b30f015c57c4d4a2b89bb7d72d303cd6c1/docs/CONTRIBUTORS.rst#development-installation).

Author: I'm OK with that. I was trying to use the sphinx feature
I left it enabled in the case it is needed for label reference.

Note: Development of TUF occurs on the "develop" branch of this repository.

Contributions are encouraged to read the `Secure Systems Lab Development Guidelines
<https://github.com/secure-systems-lab/lab-guidelines/blob/master/dev-workflow.md>`_

> before `Submitting Contributions`_.

Reviewer: What about combining the first two paragraphs e.g. like so...

```
Contribute to python-tuf by submitting pull requests against the "develop"
branch of this repository. Detailed instructions are available in our
`development guidelines
<https://github.com/secure-systems-lab/lab-guidelines/blob/master/dev-workflow.md>`_.
All submitted code should follow our `style guidelines
<https://github.com/secure-systems-lab/code-style-guidelines/blob/master/python.md>`__
and must be unit tested [reference to test section below] .
```
?

Development Installation
========================

To work on the TUF project, it's best to perform a development install.

To facilitate development and installation of edited version of the code base,
developers are encouraged to install

> `Virtualenv <https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/index.html>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
developers are encouraged to use
`venv <https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html>`_.
```

    $ python3 -m pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

Testing
=======

With `tox <https://testrun.org/tox/>`_, the test suite can be executed in a
separate *venv*. While a supported Python version must already be available.

``tox`` will install ``tuf`` and dependencies, run the tests, linting, and

> coverage.

Reviewer: This used to be one sentence...

> While a supported Python version must already be available,``tox`` will install ``tuf`` and dependencies.

::

    $ tox

Below, you will see more details about each steps managed by ``tox``, in case
you need debug/run outside ``tox``.

> tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unit Tests
```

Author: I fixed it, but IMO, Tests would be better once we don't have only unit tests running.

-----

More specifically, the Update Framework's test suite can be executed by invoking
the test aggregation script inside the *tests* subdirectory. ``tuf`` and its
dependencies must already be installed.
::

    $ cd tests
    $ python3 tests/aggregate_tests.py

> See the the help (``-h``) for the usage.

Reviewer: Does `aggregate_tests` have a `-h` option?

Author: My fault, individual tests have `-h` option

> coverage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Coverage
```

--------

To run the tests and measure their code coverage, the aggregation script can be
invoked with the ``coverage`` tool (requires installation of ``coverage``, e.g.
via PyPI).
::

    $ cd tests/
    $ coverage run aggregate_tests.py && coverage report

> liniting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Auto-formatting
```

    $ python3 -m pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

Testing
=======

> With `tox <https://testrun.org/tox/>`_, the test suite can be executed in a
> separate *venv*. While a supported Python version must already be available,
> ``tox`` will install ``tuf`` and dependencies, run the tests, auto-formatting,
> and coverage.

Reviewer: I'm not a comma expert, but I think here's a superfluous one. Also, should we mention that tox runs tests for each Python version? E.g.:
```suggestion
With `tox <https://testrun.org/tox/>`_ the whole test suite can be executed in
a separate *virtual environment* for each supported Python version available on
the system. ``tuf`` and its dependencies are installed automatically for each tox
run.
```

Author: Thanks, I will look into the commas. Writing docs is a big challenge to me 🤪.

About the tox multiple versions, it doesn't run for all versions anymore in the default call. Not sure if we need to go deep on tox usage. The usage is in the link above.

Reviewer: Oh right. Apologies for the noise then. Please disregard my suggestion.

::

    $ tox

> Below, you will see more details about each steps managed by ``tox``, in case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below, you will see more details about each step managed by ``tox``, in case
```

you need debug/run outside ``tox``.

Unit tests
----------

More specifically, the Update Framework's test suite can be executed by invoking
the test aggregation script inside the *tests* subdirectory. ``tuf`` and its
dependencies must already be installed.
::

    $ cd tests/
    $ python3 aggregate_tests.py

Individual tests can also be executed. Optional '-v' flags can be added to
increase log level up to DEBUG ('-vvvv').

    $ cd tests/

>     $ python3 test_updater_ng.py -v

Reviewer: I think this should also be rendered in a code block like the above.

Coverage
--------

To run the tests and measure their code coverage, the aggregation script can be
invoked with the ``coverage`` tool (requires installation of ``coverage``, e.g.
via PyPI).
::

    $ cd tests/
    $ coverage run aggregate_tests.py && coverage report

Auto-formatting
---------------

CI/CD will check that new TUF code is formatted with `black
<https://black.readthedocs.io/>`__ and `isort <https://pycqa.github.io/isort>`__.
Auto-formatting can be done on the command line:
::

    $ black <filename>
    $ isort <filename>

or via source code editor plugin
[`black <https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/editor_integration.html>`__,
`isort <https://github.com/pycqa/isort/wiki/isort-Plugins>`__] or
`pre-commit <https://pre-commit.com/>`__-powered git hooks
[`black <https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/version_control_integration.html>`__,
`isort <https://pycqa.github.io/isort/docs/configuration/pre-commit/>`__].

> Submitting Contributions
> ========================

Reviewer: This section is really about DCO, should we change the title?
```suggestion
Submitting Contributions
```
```suggestion
DCO
===
```

> Contributions can be made by submitting GitHub pull requests.

Reviewer: I think this sentence is no longer necessary. We already say so above.
